<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="structur_gt">
<title>📓 Structure Ground Truth</title>
<shortdesc>The OCR-D structure Ground Truth contains publications in which only the structures or
                regions were labelled. The individual regions are marked according to the PAGE
                scheme.</shortdesc>
<body>
                                <p>The structure-ground truth corpus offered by OCR-D is composed of
                                                publications from the period 1500 - 1900. On the
                                                digital copy, individual regions are marked
                                                according to the PAGE scheme. In addition,
                                                individual pages are categorised according to their
                                                content.</p>
                                <p>The content of the corpus is based on manually recorded zoning
                                                data, which were collected in the course of the DFG
                                                project Deutsches Textarchiv. This data originally
                                                served to support manual transcription in the double
                                                keying process. No processing (cropping, dewarping)
                                                of the digitised data was undertaken. In contrast to
                                                the element repertoire of the PAGE format, parts of
                                                the data were indexed in greater depth within the
                                                framework of the DFG project Deutsches Textarchiv.
                                                This depth of indexing is recorded as a value of the
                                                  <tt>custom attribute</tt>.</p>
                                <p>The structure ground truth can also be created in three different
                                                levels. The levels differ in scope, differentiation
                                                of the individual page types and regions. Further
                                                notes and information are presented in the following
                                                chapters:</p>
                                <p>
                                                <ol id="ol_qwp_wxk_lrb">
                                                  <li><xref href="lySeitentypen.dita"/></li>
                                                  <li><xref href="lyTextregionen.dita"/><ol
                                                  id="ol_h2n_wtz_jrb">
                                                  <li><xref href="ly_level_1_5.dita"/></li>
                                                  <li><xref href="ly_level_2_5.dita"/></li>
                                                  </ol></li>
                                                </ol>
                                </p>
                </body>

<related-links>
<link href="http://www.primaresearch.org/tools/PAGELibraries" format="html" scope="external"><desc>PAGE-XML scheme of the PRImA-Research-Lab</desc></link>
<link href="https://github.com/PRImA-Research-Lab/PAGE-XML" format="html" scope="external"><desc>PAGE-XML scheme on GitHub</desc>
</link>
</related-links>
</topic>
